# CS340-SNHU
Portfolio from CS340-Client/Server Development


### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

When trying to keep programs maintainable, readable, and adaptable it is best to think modularly. For example, the CRUD Python code in our first Project was then used again in the following modules. Byt keep a well commented and documented code from the beginning, it was easier to scale to more complex projects as the term progressed. This is similar to applications in the real world. If you are able to grab a well writen, and potentially optimized, base code to work off of, most projects would be able to be streamlined, thus keeping production costs down while allow the developers to work on the project specific components sooner.

### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

When approaching a problem I believ we need to think logically. In the same way as you may solve a physics problem, you need to define the scope of what you are trying to achieve. Then you want to come create a list of the given information and requirements. This step is crucial for making sure that the client's needs are actually met by the product delivered. I often use this as a checklist while developing the project, so it is best to make as indepth of a list as possible. One thing I did during this proejct that I haven't done in previous projects was starting over. I think it's important to know when something isn't working and that you need to hard restart. Now, this isn't to say that I deleted the code I was working on. To do this project we needed to VPN into the campus system. Sometimes this would create unideal conditions for testing the code. Thus, every so often if I was continually running into an error, I would restart my connection into the campus system to illiminate the possibility that something may have been running in the backgorund causing issues. 

### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists take a challenge, aply cirtical thinking skills to interpret how to meet the challenge presented, and then test their solution. The work they do helps to deliver a quality product to clients and their userbase. I believe that the work done on this could be helpful for companies to do their work better by showing the importance of modulating your code. By creating code that can be readily plugged into other projects, a company is able to hit deadlines faster and minimize the amount of time that may be needed for debuggint the program. It also helps reduce the amount of duplicate code being written. 
